1.2 Acknowledgements
Among the people that supported me over my years of study at the University of Hamburg and the writing of this thesis I have to mention my great teachers professor Martin Delhey and professor Harunaga Isaacson in first position. We had the opportunity to read this text on numerous occasions together, both by meeting in person as well as online, and I benefited immensely through these meetings. I have to express my deep gratitude for receiving such a generous and constant support. Equally important for my development have been the classes that I could attend over the years at the University of Hamburg. In addition to the previously mentioned teachers I have to express my gratitude to Dr. Joerg Heimbel, professor Dorji Wangchuck and professor Michael Zimmermann at this point.
During the process of writing this thesis, I had the opportunity to spend 1 1/2 years as an exchange student at the Kyoto University in Japan under the guidance of professor Izumi Miyazaki. During my time in Kyoto I was in the precious situation of being able to attend classes both at Kyoto University as well as Ryukoku University. In this context I have to express my gratitude to professor Miyazaki for guiding me during my time in Kyoto, to professor Funayama for his wonderful teaching and the great discussions at Kyoto University and to professor Hayashima and professor Katsura for welcoming me in their research meetings at the Ryukoku University. Among the other teachers that I could study with during my stay in Japan, I would like to specially express my gratitude to professor Kazuo Kano and Dr. Yoshihito Muroji. The later one was very kind to read parts of a very early draft of this thesis during a class that was held in the winter term 2018/2019 and I could incoorporate a lot of suggestions and corrections that he and the other students made during these meetings.
Regarding my colleagues and fellow students both in Hamburg and Japan there are two persons that I have to mention specially: Eva Strähle at the University of Hamburg and Yusei Kitayama at Ryukoku University. Eva Strähle has supported me in the acquisition of a lot of the necessary literature and material for this study and I also value deeply the discussions we had on the text, the author and the related materials over the years in Hamburg. With Yusei Kitayama, I had the great opportunity to read a lot of the reconstructions of the missing Sanskrit sections of the MAVṬ together and he has given me his valuable oppinion on many of these. I also have to express my gratitude to Yusei Kitayama for his help and support in attending the various research meetings at the Ryukoku University where we had the opportunity to read and discuss other texts written by Vasubandhu and Sthiramati as well.
There are countless other people both in Hamburg and Japan that would deserve to be mentioned here, but out of desire to keep this list managable, I will only mention those that had a direct impact on the creation of this thesis: Keiki Nakayama of Kyoto University for reading this and other texts together with me and Yusei Kitayama; Vladimir Angirov for reading parts of this texts and giving his valuable suggestions for improvements both on the reconstructions as well as the layout of the thesis; Woonsaan Seok and Hejung Seok who both joined our readings in Hamburg frequently and made not a few valuable suggestions during these meetings. I also want to express my special gratitude to Kanako Shinga who helped me with great care and patience in my study of Japanese by reading professor Yamaguchi's traditional Japanese translation of the MAVṬ over the period of one year in Hamburg.
Lastly I would like to thank those people who joined and/or supported our effort on developing digital tools for the detection of parallel passages in Buddhist source materials at the University of Hamburg. These tools have helped directly to improve the quality of this thesis by making it possible for me to consult corresponding textual parallels in related texts quickly. At this point I have to mention Dr. Orna Almogi, Dr. Oliver Hellwig, Ven. Vimala and Hubert Dworczyński. I sincerely hope that we will be able to make the results of our work available to the public in a not too distant future.
